relay-based event access-control with the `["-"]` tag (#1030)
nostr-protocol/nips: 70.md

NIP-70
======

Protected Events
----------------

> `draft` `optional`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`draft` `mandatory`
```

Reviewer: I like the simplicity, but it's gotta be widely adopted for it to be useful.

Reviewer 2: maybe the requirement that relays reject events with `"-"` tag by default should actually be added to NIP01, and then this NIP would define when events with `"-"` tag can be accepted (when the author matches authenticated user). that would suggest that rejection of events with `"-"` tag is expected behavior, while making it optional to accept them under very specific parameters.

NIP-70
======

Protected Events
----------------

`draft` `optional`

When the `"-"` tag is present, that means the event is "protected".

> A protected event is an event that can only be published to relays by its author. That allows the author to choose who can access their events (either by knowing in advance the relay policy with regards to reads or by means of an external relationship with the relay that is not specified here).

Reviewer 3: > A protected event is an event that can only be published to relays by its **author**

What if optionally the `"-"` tag can have a list of pubkeys that are allowed to (re)publish the event (which may have been authored by someone else)?

It would be in line with for example a gift wrap that is authored by a random key but is meant to be "owned" by the receiving user (set on the `p` tag).

Reviewer 4: That would leak a lot of metadata if used with gift wraps, defeating the entire purpose.

Reviewer 5: only users authed by the p-tag should be able to download these events. Anyone can upload.

Reviewer 2: >What if optionally the "-" tag can have a list of pubkeys that are allowed to (re)publish the event (which may have been authored by someone else)?

I thought of this too actually, I think it would work well. but figured that this NIP can always be extended to add this feature in the future so maybe just shelve it until theres an actual use case. most important thing right now is making rejection of events with `"-"` tag the default behavior.

Reviewer 3: I thought that with e.g. `["-", "<author-pub>", "<receiver-pub>"]` the receiver could rebroadcast it to backup for example a local copy to another relay.

But yeah for gift wraps it doesn't make much sense as the receiver could re-wrap the seal. Just an idea but yeah haven't give it much thought.

The default behavior of a relay MUST be to reject any event that contains `["-"]`.

> Relays that want to accept such events MUST first require that the client perform the `AUTH` flow and then check if the authenticated client has the same pubkey as the event being published and only accept the event in that case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Relays that want to accept such events MUST first require that the client perform the [NIP-42](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/42.md) `AUTH` flow and then check if the authenticated client has the same pubkey as the event being published and only accept the event in that case.
```

["OK", "cb8feca582979d91fe90455867b34dbf4d65e4b86e86b3c68c368ca9f9eef6f2", true, ""]
```

## Use cases

- private groups
- private feeds
- optimistic hiding of DMs or other encrypted material metadata

## Why

Many people want to restrict access to some of their data to a closed group: by having, for example, a private feed for paying subscribers.

Even though it's ultimately impossible to restrict the spread of information on the internet (for example, one of the members of the closed group may want to take an event intended to be restricted and republish it to other relays), most relays would be happy to not facilitate the acts of these so-called "pirates", in respect to the original decision of the author.

This NIP gives these authors and relays the means to know when a given event is not intended to be broadcasted to all and everywhere.

## How

> The default behavior for most relays will be to reject all events with the `"-"` tag. Only relays previously programmed to enforce access-control on these events would have to write special code for handling them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default behavior for relays will be to reject all events with the `"-"` tag. The only relays that should accept these events are those that have been explicitly programmed to enforce write access control for all events with the `"-"` tag.
```
